Plugin Facelift (#17)
jenkinsci/join-plugin: README.md

# Join Plugin for Jenkins

[![Jenkins Plugin](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/v/join.svg)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/join)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/jenkinsci/join-plugin.svg?label=changelog)](https://github.com/jenkinsci/join-plugin/releases/latest)
[![Jenkins Plugin Installs](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/i/join.svg?color=blue)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/join)
  
This plugin allows a job to be run after all the immediate downstream
jobs have completed.   In this way,  the execution can branch out and
perform many steps in parallel, and then run a final aggregation step
just once after all the parallel work is finished.  
The plugin is useful for creating a 'diamond' shape project dependency.

>   This means there is a single parent job that starts several downstream

Reviewer: Is this indentation intentional to change the layout of the paragraph?
```suggestion
This means there is a single parent job that starts several downstream
```

jobs.   Once those jobs are finished, a single aggregation job runs.  
More complex interactions are not possible with this plugin.  
  

> The downstream projects are specified using Hudson's normal project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The downstream projects are specified using the Jenkins normal project
```

relationship mechanism.   

  
  

## Example:

Our build consists of four jobs - test, testDown1, testDown2 and
testJoin. Basically they have to run in sequence, but testDown1 and
testDown2 could be run in parallel.(Maybe something like build - run
tests - metrics - release). The logical overview of our jobs would be:  
![](docs/images/JobJoinPlugin-Config.jpg)  

> First we have to define our four jobs. With normal Hudson job dependency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we have to define our four jobs. With normal Jenkins job dependency
```

("*Build other projects*") we add testDown1 and testDown2 to test. This
is the fork in the diagram.

> Adding the testJoin in that way is not possible, because would start it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding the testJoin in that way is not possible, because it would start
```

immediately after finishing the test-job. This is where this plugin
jumps into: the test-job configures the Join Trigger and specifies the
job to run after the join. The plugin is now able to start the testJoin
job - but it needs to know when the forked jobs have finished. That's
why we add the Join Trigger Upstream Notifier to these jobs.

Now the plugin gets the list of all forked jobs by its base job (test),
gets informed by all forked jobs, waits for all "own" jobs to be
completed and then starts the final job (testJoin).

### Configuration of the base job (test):

  
![](docs/images/Picture_7.png)  

### Configuration of forked jobs - testDown1 + testDown2:

No configuration required.  

> ### Having multiple forks&joins in Hudson

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Having multiple forks&joins in Jenkins
```

Author: ```suggestion
### Having multiple forks and joins in Jenkins
```

> ### Having multiple forks&joins in Hudson

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Having multiple forks and joins in Hudson
```

The first example shows the use of this plugin for creating one
'diamond' job dependency. Having multiple diamonds is also easy (I

> whished it would be in real world

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wish it would be in the real world
```

![(wink)](docs/images/wink.svg)
) But the resulting logical overview is a little bit different:
![](docs/images/Two_Diamonds.jpg)  

> You have two base jobs (testA and testB) and Hudson forks them in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have two base jobs (testA and testB) and Jenkins forks them in the
```

first step. Each of the diamonds has its own fork (2A and 2B). But ALL
forked jobs inform the SAME observer (here shown as join bar *JobJoin
Observer*). This ONE observer has two joins configured: the A-diamond

> and the B-diamond. And each fragment waits for recieving all the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the B-diamond. And each fragment waits to receive all the
```

notifications it needs.

### Example:

1.  Hudson starts
2.  Hudson starts testB
3.  Hudson starts testA
4.  testA finishes
5.  Hudson starts downA1
6.  Hudson starts downA2
7.  testB finishes
8.  Hudson starts downB2

> 9.  Hudson starts downB1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Jenkins starts
2.  Jenkins starts testB
3.  Jenkins starts testA
4.  testA finishes
5.  Jenkins starts downA1
6.  Jenkins starts downA2
7.  testB finishes
8.  Jenkins starts downB2
9.  Jenkins starts downB1
```
